Expand "Rejected requests" documentation (#4634)
elastic/docs-content: troubleshoot/elasticsearch/rejected-requests.md

`write` thread pool rejections frequently appear in the erring API and correlating log as `EsRejectedExecutionException` with either `QueueResizingEsThreadPoolExecutor` or `queue capacity`.

> The `queue` and `active` pools are point-in-time values. `rejected` and `completed` are cumulative counters on each node that reset when the node process restarts. Therefore, avoid interpreting a single snapshot “rejected/completed ratio” in isolation — compare deltas over a time window (e.g., sample every 1–5 minutes and calculate the increase in `rejected` vs the increase in `completed`). Sustained non-zero `rejected` deltas indicate ongoing request drops (typically surfaced to clients as HTTP 429).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `queue` and `active` pools are point-in-time values. `rejected` and `completed` are cumulative counters on each node that reset when the node process restarts. Therefore, avoid interpreting a single snapshot “rejected/completed ratio” in isolation — compare deltas over a time window (for example, sample every 1–5 minutes and calculate the increase in `rejected` vs the increase in `completed`). Sustained non-zero `rejected` deltas indicate ongoing request drops (typically surfaced to clients as HTTP 429).
```
(we try to avoid Latin abbreviations: etc., e.g., i.e.,)

These statistics are cumulative from node startup. For more information, see [circuit breaker errors](circuit-breaker-errors.md).

Refer to the [Circuit Breaker Error video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=k3wYlRVbMSw) for a troubleshooting walkthrough.

## Analyze indexing pressure [check-indexing-pressure]

> {{es}} reserves part of its JVM for indexing and can error if heap usage exceeds its [`indexing_pressure.memory.limit` setting](elasticsearch://reference/elasticsearch/index-settings/pressure.md#memory-limits). To check the number of [indexing pressure](elasticsearch://reference/elasticsearch/index-settings/pressure.md) rejections, use the [node stats API](https://www.elastic.co/docs/api/doc/elasticsearch/operation/operation-nodes-stats).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{es}} reserves part of its JVM for indexing. An error can occur if heap usage exceeds the [`indexing_pressure.memory.limit` setting](elasticsearch://reference/elasticsearch/index-settings/pressure.md#memory-limits). To check the number of [indexing pressure](elasticsearch://reference/elasticsearch/index-settings/pressure.md) rejections, use the [node stats API](https://www.elastic.co/docs/api/doc/elasticsearch/operation/operation-nodes-stats).
```

      },
      "status" : 429
    }
    ```

* The error log will return an `EsRejectedExecutionException` like:

    ```
    Caused by: org.elasticsearch.common.util.concurrent.EsRejectedExecutionException: rejected execution of primary operation [coordinating_and_primary_bytes=XXXXX, replica_bytes=XXXXX, all_bytes=XXXXX, coordinating_operation_bytes=XXXXX, max_coordinating_and_primary_bytes=XXXXX]
    ```

As part of the [Reading and writing documents](/deploy-manage/distributed-architecture/reading-and-writing-documents.md) outlined models, the portion of the error `rejected execution of <category> operation` would report one of the following categories: `combined_coordinating_and_primary`, `coordinating`, `primary`, or `replica`.

These errors are often related to:

* The quantity of [backlogged tasks](task-queue-backlog.md).
* The value of [Bulk index](https://www.elastic.co/docs/api/doc/elasticsearch/operation/operation-bulk) sizing being set too large.
* Large search response sizes.

> * Use of the [`semantic_text`](elasticsearch://reference/elasticsearch/mapping-reference/semantic-text) field type, which can cause rejections when indexing large batches of documents if the batch may otherwise incur an Out of Memory (OOM) error. {applies_to}`stack: ga 9.1`{applies_to}`serverless: ga`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Use of the [`semantic_text`](elasticsearch://reference/elasticsearch/mapping-reference/semantic-text.md) field type, which can cause rejections when indexing large batches of documents if the batch may otherwise incur an Out of Memory (OOM) error. {applies_to}`stack: ga 9.1`{applies_to}`serverless: ga`
```

If {{es}} regularly rejects requests and other tasks, your cluster likely has high CPU usage or high JVM memory pressure. For tips, see [High CPU usage](high-cpu-usage.md) and [High JVM memory pressure](high-jvm-memory-pressure.md).

> ### Fix indexing/search request bursts and concurrency (HTTP 429)

Reviewer 2: `:spiderman-jinx:` 😂 

I was also looking to cover this on the task queue backlog side because it matters just that it queues even if it doesn't reject (but I do like your expanded wording better if you wouldn't mind some plagiarizing / cross-pollinating?): https://github.com/elastic/docs-content/pull/4657/files#diff-2ba649b230c054cba45dd0cc2039a0e546b92f16f09405a8b65c84a0e2007b3aR39
